# AlgorithmComparator
 
Algorithm Comparator was completed as a final project for a sophomore computer science course called Java Programming II. The project required the design and implementation of searching and sorting algorithms that could be compared under different conditions. The searching algorithms were linear search, binary search, and hashing. The sorting algorithms were bubble sort, insertion sort, merge sort, quick sort, and heap sort. The different conditions were the size of the data, the type of data structure, the type of data, and the order of the data. The data structures were doubly linked lists and arrays and the data types were ints and Strings. The algorithms had to be implemented in several different ways to accommodate these conditions in particular the different data types since the project required the use of ints and could not use the Integer class. Some conditions could not be used with certain algorithms. The doubly linked list could not be used for hashing or heap sort. Binary search could only be used on inorder data. The application will not run under those combinations.


The algorithms were compared with respect to the number of comparisons made during their execution. They were compared by this means in order to give the students an exploration into algorithm analysis. The project also utilized many features of the Java language such as OOP, I/O, GUI, recursion, and exception handling. The project was developed using NetBeans, Java, Swing, and jfreechart.
